BXMSDOC-6481: Release notes docs for DM and PAM 7.9 (#95)
kaldesai/kie-docs: doc-content/enterprise-only/release-notes/rn-790-known-issues-ref.adoc

[id='rn-790-known-issues-ref']
= Known issues in {PRODUCT} {ENTERPRISE_VERSION_LONG}

This section lists known issues with {PRODUCT} {PRODUCT_VERSION}.

== {CENTRAL}

.Package list fails to populate default package for imported projects [https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHPAM-3209[RHPAM-3209]]

Issue: When a project contains many packages, and you try to create a new asset, list of packages take some time to populate.

Steps to reproduce:

. Import a project which contains a lot of packages.
. Go to the project page.
. Click *Add Asset*.
+
The *Assets* window appears.
. Add any asset in the project.
. In the pop-up window, check the *Package* drop-down list.
+
You receive *Nothing selected* option for some time.

Expected result: Package list is populating default package for imported projects.

Actual result: Package list is not populating default package for imported projects.

Workaround:

> * Make sure you have identical paths in both `src/java` and `src/resources`. When you are managing in Git repository, insert `.gitkeep` files to retain the empty folder structure.

Author: I will keep it simple. 
_In your Git repository, insert....._

* In the asset pop-up window, manually select the *<default>* option the *Package* drop-down list..

.Collection editor not opening for DRL based test scenarios [https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHDM-1464[RHDM-1464]]

> Issue: DRL based test scenario throws an unexpected errors when you open a collection editor for list of some datatypes.

Author: You receive a single error.

. Enter the GAV values manually.
. Select the *Start Deployment Unit?* check box to start the service.
. Click *Finish*.
+
You receive an unexpected system error.

Workaround: None.

ifdef::PAM[]

.Unable to navigate from child process instance to parent process instance even after both are instance [https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHPAM-3227[RHPAM-3227]]

Issue: You cannot navigate from child process instance to parent process instance but possible to navigate from parent process instance to child process instance.

Steps to reproduce:

. In {CENTRAL}, create parent process and child process relationship.
. Start the process instance and make it active.
. Notice that, you cannot navigate from child process instance to parent process instance.

Expected result: Whenever there is an active process instances, there must be link to navigate from child process instance to parent process instance and vice versa.

Actual result: You cannot navigate from child process instance to parent process instance.

Workaround: None.

endif::[]

.The deployment unit fields are missing when you add a new deployment unit [https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHPAM-3213[RHPAM-3213]]

> Issue: When you add a deployment unit, *Add Deployment Unit* fields are missing.

Author: When you click **Add Deployment unit**, multiple fields are present but those fields are missing.

. Create a new process instance.
. Enter the following endpoint URL:
+
[source]
----
http://<host>:<port>/kie-server/services/rest/server/containers/\{containerId}/forms/tasks/\{taskInstanceId}/content\
----

You receive an exception.

Workaround: None.

endif::[]

ifdef::PAM[]
== Process Designer

.Data objects in Assignments disappear once you save the process [https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHPAM-3212[RHPAM-3212]]

Issue: Data objects which are present in *Assignments* disappears once you save the process.

Steps to reproduce:

. Create a data object.
. Create a user task.
. Click the *Properties* icon on the upper-right side of the screen to open the *Properties* panel.
. Expand *Implementation/Execution* and select *Assignments* to open the *Data I/O* window.
. Next to *Data Inputs and Assignments*, click *Add* and select a *Source* value.
. Next to *Data Outputs and Assignments*, click *Add* and select a *Target* value.
. Close the *Assignments* and save the process.
. Open the *Assignments* sub-section.

Expected result: Source and Target fields are empty.

Actual result: Source and Target fields are set to data object.

> Workaround: Deselect and select the task again.

Author: Cool :)

Issue: Text area used for script task is cropped and shifted when you enter large lines of code. Also, the vertical scrollbar is shifted.

Steps to reproduce:

. Create a script task.
. Expand *Implementation/Execution* section.
. In *Script* text area, enter large lines of code.

Expected result: Text area used for script task is not cropped and shifted.

Actual result: Text area used for script task is cropped and shifted.

Workaround: None.

.When an inline text editor is active, you cannot activate any property immediately [https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHPAM-3198[RHPAM-3198]]

Issue: It is not possible to activate any property immediately in the *Properties* panel when an inline editor is active.

Steps to reproduce:

. Create any node.
. Ensure that *Properties* panel is open.
. Double-click on the node to activate the inline text editor.
. Click on any property from the *Properties* panel.

Expected result: You can edit the property when an inline text editor is active.

Actual result: You cannot edit the property when an inline text editor is active.

Workaround: When you follow the steps to reproduce, click on the property again.

> .You cannot use an inline text editor when a node is near to the left canvas border [https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHPAM-3167[RHPAM-3167]]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.You cannot use an inline text editor when a node is near the left canvas border [https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHPAM-3167[RHPAM-3167]]
```

> Issue: You cannot use an inline text editor when a node is near to the left canvas border. This issue is applicable to events, gateways and data object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Issue: You cannot use an inline text editor when a node is near the left canvas border. This issue is applicable to events, gateways, and data object.
```

Steps to reproduce:

. Create any node.
. Place it near to the left canvas border.
. Double-click on the node.

Expected result: An inline text editor is active and you can edit the node name.

Actual result: An inline text editor is not active and you cannot edit the node name.

Workaround: None.

.The edited node is see-through when you use an inline text editor [https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHPAM-3166[RHPAM-3166]]

Issue: The edited node is see-through when you use an inline text editor.

Steps to reproduce:

> . Create an embedded sub-process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create an embedded subprocess.
```

> . Change the name of this sub-process to a long text. For example, over 300 characters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Change the name of the subprocess to a long text. For example, over 300 characters.
```

> . Create any node inside the sub-process and place it over the sub-process's text.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create any node inside the subprocess and place it over the text of the subprocess.
```

. Edit the node name using an inline text editor.

Expected result: The text is readable and the edited node is not see-through.

Actual result: The text is not readable because the edited node is see-through.

Workaround: None.

== Process engine

> .When the SLA on user task is executed, you receive `No session found for context` errors [https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHPAM-3233[RHPAM-3233]]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.When the SLA on user task is executed, you receive `No session found for context` error [https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHPAM-3233[RHPAM-3233]]
```

> Issue: When the service level agreement (SLA) on user task is executed on container with `PER_PROCESS_INSTANCE` runtime strategy, you receive `No session found for context` errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Issue: When the service level agreement (SLA) on user task is executed on container with `PER_PROCESS_INSTANCE` runtime strategy, you receive `No session found for context` error.
```

Steps to reproduce:

. Clone the https://github.com/kiegroup/droolsjbpm-integration[droolsjbpm-integration] project.
. Open `SLAComplianceIntegrationTest.java` file from the cloned project.
. Comment out all the tests except `testSLAonUserTaskViolated()`.
. Open the terminal on `kie-server-integ-tests-jbpm/` folder and execute the test using following command:
+
[source]
----
mvn clean install -Pwildfly -Dit.test=SLAComplianceIntegrationTest
----
. Check the logs on the terminal.
+

> Once the test execution starts, you will receive `No session found for context` errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the test execution starts, you receive a `No session found for context` error.
```

endif::[]

== DMN designer

.Decision service is missing `inputData` element in model with multiple DRDs [https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHDM-1483[RHDM-1483]]

> Issue: In a model containing multiple decision requirement diagrams (DRDs), when you try reuse a decision component by adding it into a decision service node, the `inputData` element is missing from the the resulting decision service node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Issue: When you reuse a decision component by adding it into a decision service node in a model containing multiple decision requirement diagrams (DRDs), the `inputData` element is missing from the resulting decision service node.
```

Steps to reproduce:

. Define multiple decision requirement diagrams (DRDs).

> . In one DRD, define some decisions with inputs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In a DRD, define some decisions with inputs.
```

> . In another DRD, define decision service and reuse the decision components from above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In another DRD, define decision service and reuse the decision components from the previous DRD.
```

+
Do not duplicate the inputs.
. Build and deploy the decision service.
. Do any of the following tasks:

* Evaluate the decision to see the error reported in the description.

> * Verify the dmn source and see that `inputData` element is missing from decision service .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Verify the DMN source and see that `inputData` element is missing from the decision service.
```

> Workaround: Add an `inputData` element mannually into resulting `decisionService` element.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Workaround: Add an `inputData` element manually into the resulting `decisionService` element.
```

.DMN editor does not detect the changes from the Decision Navigator view [https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHDM-1482[RHDM-1482]]

> Issue: DMN editor does not detect change in the file when decision requirement diagram (DRD) is renamed or removed from the *Decision Navigator* view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Issue: DMN editor does not detect changes in the file when a decision requirement diagram (DRD) is renamed or removed from the *Decision Navigator* view.
```

Steps to reproduce:

. Rename a DRD from the *Decision Navigator* view.
. Click *Save*.
+
You receive *You have no unsaved changes* alert window.
. Close the DMN editor.
+
You receive *You have no unsaved changes* alert window.
. Reopen the DMN editor.
+
The name of the DRD is still the same.

> Workaround: You need to do a different change to the file which then enforces save or discard action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Workaround: Make a different change to the file which then enforces save or discard action.
```

> .In decision table, the constraint value is missing [https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHDM-1460[RHDM-1460]]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.The constraint value is missing in a decision table [https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHDM-1460[RHDM-1460]]
```

Issue: The constraint value is missing while defining a decision table.

Steps to reproduce:

. Create a DMN file with decision.
. Define a decision table.
. Set the first column type as a number.
. Save the asset.
. Close the editor.
. Reopen the asset.
. Go to the decision table.
. Select the input with type as a number.
. Open the *Properties* panel.
. Set the constraint in the *Constraint value* field.
. Select the output column.
. Select the input column again.
. Verify that the constraint value is missing.

Workaround: None.

> .The undo and redo operations does not work properly when you delete a node in decision requirements graph (DRG) [https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHDM-1459[RHDM-1459]]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.The undo and redo operations do not work properly when you delete a node in a decision requirements graph (DRG) [https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHDM-1459[RHDM-1459]]
```

> Issue: In a model containing multiple decision requirement diagrams (DRDs), the undo and redo operations does not work properly when you delete a node in decision requirements graph (DRG).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Issue: In a model containing multiple decision requirement diagrams (DRDs), the undo and redo operations do not work properly when you delete a node in the decision requirements graph (DRG).
```

Steps to reproduce:

. Move the node to a DRD.
. Navigate to DRG.
. Delete the node from the DRG.
. Undo the changes.

Expected result: You can perform the undo and redo operations in DRG.

> Actual result: You receive an error pop-up. When you confirm, the DRG is broken.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Actual result: You receive an error. When you confirm, the DRG is broken.
```

Workaround: None.

.The undo and redo operations are lost when you switch between the diagrams [https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHDM-1458[RHDM-1458]]

Issue: In a model containing multiple decision requirement diagrams (DRDs), the undo and redo operations are lost when you switch between the diagrams.

Steps to reproduce:

. Open a DMN file with two or more decision requirement diagrams (DRDs).
. Make some changes. For example, move a node in one diagram.
. Switch to another diagram.

> . Click *Undo* or press (Ctrl+Z).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click *Undo* or press kbd:[Ctrl+Z].
```

+
The undo and redo operations are lost and nothing changes.

Workaround: None.

.In {CENTRAL}, the DMN editor is unable to save the changes in the Properties panel [https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHDM-1456[RHDM-1456]]

> Issue: In DMN editor, when you change the name property in the *Properties* panel, try to save the changes and reopen the editor, the DMN editor is unable to save the changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Issue: When you change the name property in the *Properties* panel, try to save the changes, and reopen the editor, the DMN editor is unable to save the changes.
```

Steps to reproduce:

. Create a DMN file.
. Change the name of the DMN file in the *Properties* panel.
. Click *Save*.
+
You receive *You have no unsaved changes* alert window.
. Close the DMN editor.
. Reopen the asset and check the the *Properties* panel.
+
The changes are not saved.

Workaround: None.

> .DMN editor is reporting unsaved changes in the DMN files even after there are no changes [https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHDM-1453[RHDM-1453]]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.DMN editor is reporting unsaved changes in the DMN files when there are no changes [https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHDM-1453[RHDM-1453]]
```

> Issue: When you open a DMN file in {CENTRAL} and try to close the file right away, the DMN editor reports unsaved changes in the DMN files even after there are no changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Issue: When you open a DMN file in {CENTRAL} and try to close the file without any changes, the DMN editor reports unsaved changes in the DMN files.
```

Steps to reproduce:

. In Business Central, go to *Menu → Design → Projects*.
. Click *Try samples*.
. Open *Traffic_Violation* project.
. Open *Traffic Violation* DMN file.
. Close the editor.
+
You receive an *Unsaved changes* error pop-up.

Workaround: None.

== Decision engine

.`testDoubleNaN` fails after jitting on `TypeCoercionTest` [https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHDM-1470[RHDM-1470]]

> Issue: You receive an `AssertionError` error in `org.drools.modelcompiler.TypeCoercionTest#testDoubleNaN` when the constraint is jitted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Issue: You receive an `AssertionError` error in `org.drools.modelcompiler.TypeCoercionTest#testDoubleNaN` when a constraint is jitted.
```

Steps to reproduce:

. Run the following command in `org.drools.modelcompiler` module:
+
[source]
----
mvn clean install -Dtest=org.drools.modelcompiler.TypeCoercionTest#testDoubleNaN* -Ddrools.jittingThreshold=0
----

Workaround: None.

== High-availability {CENTRAL} on premise

.You cannot create multiple processes at the same time [https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHPAM-3202[RHPAM-3202]]

> Issue: When you create multiple processes at the same time, you receive an error message and the process is not created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Issue: When you create multiple processes at the same time, you receive an error message and multiple processes are not created.
```

Steps to reproduce:

. Create multiple processes at the same time.
+

> You receive an *Activity not found* error pop-up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You receive an *Activity not found* error.
```

Workaround: None.

.When you create a project, base-kie-project is created instead of the real name of the project [https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHPAM-3193[RHPAM-3193]]

Issue: When you create a project, a project with the name *base-kie-project* is created instead of the real name of the created project.

Steps to reproduce:

. Create multiple projects with multiple users in the same space.
+
The *base-kie-project* project is created.

Workaround: Delete and recreate the project or rename the project name from *Settings* tab.

.You cannot create multiple projects at the same time [https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHPAM-3192[RHPAM-3192]]

> Issue: When you create multiple projects at the same time, you receive an error message and the project is not created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Issue: When you create multiple projects at the same time, you receive an error message and multiple projects are not created.
```

Steps to reproduce:

. Create multiple projects at the same time.
+

> You receive an error pop-up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You receive an error.
```
